# Discriminating algorithms and models
- An algorithm is a **manually-designed** calculation method or regularity for a certain problem. For instance, BLAST (Basic Local Alignment Search Tool) algorithm is used to calculate the similarity of two sequences, and k-NN (k-Nearest Neighbor) algorithm is used to predict the class of a set of samples.
- In machine learning field, model is typically the result after training with certain algorithms. **Those algorithms are man-made but the training process is finished by machines.** For instance, after trained with a dataset, a machine programmed with k-NN algorithm can output a model for class discrimination that predicts the class of new samples, and AlphaFold2 is a model that is trained with a huge amount of protein structure and sequence and can predict a protein's structure based on its sequence.

# My study plan in bioinformatics class
- My basic goal is to get an overall mastery of bioinformatic analysis. Taking advantages of the softwares in the image provided by the class, hopefully I can finish a whole pipeline that turning raw sequencing data to visible results such as figures and tables.
- I also regard this class a chance to enhance my coding skills including R plotting and Linux command prompt.
- According to the course outline, this course covers skills used not only in bioinformatics, such as dimensionality reduction and clustering and some other basic machine learning contents. They are appealing so I plan to seek for extensive knowledge in these fields.
- Most importantly, this course is a great chance to meet new people and learn from their perspectives and suggestions.